In this class we will take a step
further with the aim of understanding
well what each of the balance
sheets mean and how the active
and passive balance works.
We will be introducing the concept
of spontaneous funding.
I want you to understand it well.
In the previous classes, we
have seen that companies have
to finance their assets.
For this they will need
to get funding.
We’ve put it all together in one
block, right?
Total financial needs.
But if a company has an asset
of $100,000 it will have
to obtain foreign funds or own
funds, either net asset or debt,
whatever, to be able to
finance its activity.
Instead, let’s go a little further
and what I’ll explain
in this class is how spontaneous
financing works.
How does the financing that suppliers
grant us due to the
company’s own operations work?
Remember that the supplier
balance reflects what we
owe the supplier at that
time due to a delay in payment.
We compare goods, but instead of
paying the bill to the supplier,
we pay you within a period of time.
During that time, the balance is in
the balance sheet.
Well, what I want you to understand
is that I have decided to devote
a class to this because I have seen
that many times it’s not well
understood.
What I want you to understand is that
spontaneous financing, in this
case those 20,000 euros in the balance
of suppliers, which allows us
is that we do not have to
obtain funds of the partners’
own contribution or financial
debt for the total of the asset.
In this case, we only
need to get funds
worth $80,000.
That is, the entire asset minus
the spontaneous financing.
This is really an advantage.
You do not have to fund your entire business.
Suppliers are helping you.
You do not have to pay for it, go
to the market or go to the banks
for debt.
That is, the larger the
supply party, the better
for the company.
And let’s put it, so that you understand
it well, I have put an example
with two extreme scenarios.
Business is a very simple business.
We are going to be buying and
selling used smartphones.
We will do it from our house.
We do not need to invest in
any non-current asset, in
any fixed asset.
We will sell it via
eBay.
All we have to do is buy a
batch of smartphones and sell it.
The first lot we will buy
is $100,000.
It’s the same as the asset we’ve seen before.
And we also know that in
the whole lot, we give it out.
That is, we sell it in a period of
less than about 30 days.
What I want is that we reason
to answer the following question.
How much funds do we need to obtain?
I will present two scenarios.
In scenario A, we pay
the supplier $100,000
to purchase the goods.
Before we get to the market,
we have to pay the bill.
What is the total amount
of financial needs?
How much funds do we need?
We have an asset of $100,
000 which is all current asset.
And we need to finance, to get
a total of $100,000.
Either from own funds or from
foreign debt funds.
I’ll give you a B scenario.
We pay the supplier for 60 days.
We buy the goods, we start
operating with them and even
within 60 days we do not have
to pay the supplier.
Remember that in 30 days
we were going out, we
sold all the goods.
Let us go to balance.
In this case, if we make
a situation balance, right
after the purchase of the
goods, from smartphones we
have an asset of $100,
000 that are smartphones.
We haven’t sold them yet and
we have a $100,000 liability.
This is the debt we have to the supplier.
So here I go back to the question.
How much funding do we need
to get to fund the activity
in this scenario?
You have probably already come to the conclusion.
We do not need to contribute anything.
The provider, this is an extreme
case, but so does spontaneous
financing.
The provider is helping us to
finance our activity.
Providers are equal to spontaneous funding.
Stay with this.
The only thing I wanted was
that you understood in this class
how the provider, how the
provider account, reduces
the totality of financial needs.
This helps us to finance the asset.